now two months after militant islamist
groups terror attack on Israel there's
mounting evidence of extensive rape and
sexual violence on that day police are
still combing through extensive video
footage like this filmed at the Nova
desert Rave by Hamas militants as well
as social media and security camera
footage but it has been difficult to
collect evidence because most victims
were murdered by their
attackers doctors and rights groups who
were at the scene on the day of the
attack say what they saw leaves no room
for interpretation and that the Invaders
raped and killed multiple women and
girls we saw
things there that is they were shocking
to
us women that was raped brutally raped
and then killed with gun something
else with with guns you and they were
burned alive and I I tell you this the
things we saw we will never forget
them let's speak now to Y Sherer she's
the head and founder of the Survivor of
sexual violence advocacy group and joins
me now from Jerusalem welcome to DW
thanks for making the time now you are
involved in collecting testimonials from
Witnesses and First Responders what have
you learned about the scale of sexual
violence that was committed on the 7th
of
October I work with other organizations
and all branches of government and this
investigation has just started we have a
police
investigation this police investigation
is um towards um having court cases
against people who were caught alive on
that day terrorists Hamas
operatives and and the testimonies that
were collected were quite shocking we
have now both Hamas footage and our own
footage of First Responders that
shows crime scenes where people both men
and women were raped and sexually abused
the bodies came in such a horrible
horrific condition um and we do have
have
eyewitnesses accounts people who saw
other people being raped and abused and
also a small number of survivors both
genders how hard is it uh to uh to
collect and collate this proof and
present it in a court of law and be uh
sure that this will stand uh scrutiny in
a court of law simply because most of
the victims did not survive
the acts of sexual assault that we
talking
about well it's quite clear now that we
will never know the full extent of the
sexual violence that Hamas perpetrated
here on the 7th of
October we can't collect evidence from
people who are burned and are dead now
our most eyewitnesses are also killed
and this is going to be a very hard
investigation but what we already have
is shocking and there's no
question that this happened on the 7th
of October on multiple occasions and we
have multiple crime scenes and I'm sure
Justice is going to Prevail now Hamas
which is considered a terror group by
many countries of course is denying all
of this it is saying that rape is
against the Islamic beliefs they have
said something to the effect that and I
quote we categorically reject the false
allegations of rape propagated by the
occupation particularly the recent false
allegation insinuating that members of
the resistant engaged in sexual violence
in recent
weeks based on everything that you're
saying see that I don't see the point of
denying it don't see the point of
denying it when Hamas themselves took
pictures and videos of it and we have
live terrorists being held here in
Israel being interrogated
they admit it they say it was planned
they say
it bluntly they've uploaded onto social
media footage of it we have eyewitnesses
that saw it it was wide spread they
absolutely did it here and I don't see
the point of denying it so it was
pre-planned
I think it was pre-planned they said it
was pre-planned in their
investigations and and I think this is a
foreign influence we never saw um this
kind of uh behavior before the 7th of
October so you did mention that Sina was
heavily influenced by Iran I I never saw
anything like this in this conflict
before I think this is foreign
influenced by other terrorist
organizations and groups like Al-Qaeda
like Isis this is a foreign influence on
this conflict it was brought in
this never never happened in such a
widespread um way before it's new to us
and was
absolutely documented and verified right
why plan this what is the purpose behind
committing crimes like
these well this was not an ordinary
conflict this was not only a matter of
uh raping people it was a matter of
humiliating people people were shocked
in the genitals genitals were cut off I
mean people were beheaded there was a
lot of unnecessary violence because this
is a terrorist organization and their
aim is to scare people and spread horror
this was psychotic and disgusting things
that they did to the bodies they
performed acts that I don't think Were
Meant to this is not part of a normal
conflict what was done to the bodies was
meant to spread fear right it was
sadistic disgusting do you think it'll
be possible to bring the perpetrators to
Justice we'll see the police
investigation is it just started I mean
of course this is going to be brought to
a court of law in front of the judge and
right people are going to get defense
lawyers and prosecutors and we'll see
what happens and what comes of it a lot
has yet to be published yeah you're also
working with survivors of these brutal
crimes people who witnessed the horror
that you speak about but this horror
that was committed against their friends
against
relatives how are these survivors
coping now I've not spoken to any
anybody in general I've just been
advising and working with the government
on the care that they deserve they are
all um very traumatized by these
events um which is understandable not
only were they victims of this brutal
ACT people that they know were killed
and murdered or kidnapped they're not
living at home their homes were burnt
down they can't return so they're going
to have a difficult time in front of
them and I I know that we as a state as
a country as a society we're going to
support them we'll leave it there for
the time being but thanks so much for
joining us and speaking to us today y
Shera head and founder of the Survivor
of sexual violence advocacy group thank
you so much
Al thank
you well Israel has accused the UN and
many women's rights groups of ignoring
or playing down sexual violence
committed against Israelis on the 7th of
October me too unless you're a Jew was
one of the J one of the chance of
protests outside the UN headquarters in
New York and on social media campaigns
like this music
festival we heard gunfire and everyone
was running I started running and then
he grabbed
me he yelled something in Arabic and
then he replied sorry to interrupt you
you said he was yelling in Arabic yes so
he he ripped my pants and then he just
I'm just sorry I I just need a bit of
background here are you Israeli yes and
your rapist was Palestinian
he was a Hamas
terrorist okay just um this is a bit
awkward
but we can't help you but I was
rap do you have any proof yes he filmed
it yes Hough local police don't take it
personally management decided that all
violence against Israeli is is
legitimate
resistance well Alona hag fry is a
research fellow of the Jewish people
policy Institute an author of the book
sex and gender crimes in the new
international law she told DW how she
views the international reaction to
October the 7th this is such an
important
issue ER it must be addressed by the
media it must be addressed by the entire
International Community the world must
wake up the you human rights
organization must wake up and First of
and foremost The Women rights
organization must wake up so maybe it's
a answer your question H the reaction
was silent complete silent it was
devastating because the promise of
the the human rights organization and
especially the women rights organization
is to protect all women and the silent
was a terrible
betrayal only after six weeks after we
shove all the evidence in the face as
you can see the evidence it all is all
all are all over the place we can see
the videos we can see the
testimonies H even though the the
reaction was very weak they were very
sorry and they must
investigate I don't know what happened
to We Believe all women we protect all
women something is very very wrong and
it must be
addressed well let's take a closer look
with Seline Bard who's a war crimes
expert and founder of the NGO we are not
weapons of war she joins us from Paris
welcome to DW so we we've heard there
the criticisms of many Israelis of the
UN and rights groups for apparently
playing down the sexual violence
committed on the 7th of October do you
think that criticism is
Justified well I think it's a little bit
complicated but what is the reality
because you know I was in Israel uh I
came back yesterday and you can feel
that they are very angry they are very
shocked about that because they feel
that they were not heard and the reality
is that it took uh a long time and I
think the reason why uh the reason for
that is you know this uh conflict that
arise and and and the debate and
everything and it's not normal because
if you take other cases like Ukraine or
other in Africa I mean reaction are more
quicker so yes there is a legitim
question to ask why there were no
reaction more stronger reaction let's it
like this might that be because that
well first of all of course the the the
attack took everyone uh uh by surprise
and then of course there was the
shutdown of the area and no journalists
have been allowed to get in so the world
only gets to know about it when Israel
releases the
images yeah actually yeah that's what I
wanted to add so thank you for that I
think the the thing is let's not forget
that they have themselves a little bit
you know be silence because for many
reason there is a context there is the
issue of hostages there is everything
and uh the police itself the israelian
police opened an investigation only two
weeks ago so I think what it shows is
that every time sexual violence is
always you know the last thing that we
are looking into and I think this is the
bottom line of the problem glob
yeah well let's let let's look at that
sort of expanded view because of course
there was International condemnation of
the crimes committed by Hamas on the 7th
of October do you believe it's important
to specifically acknowledge the sexual
violence yeah I I I think it is and I
you know my NGO every every moment there
is C crisis or conflict or you know
extreme violence somewhere first of all
we do know that every time something
like that happen sexual violence you
know comes in you know very rapidly we
know that by experience in many conflict
the fact is that for Israel it didn't
happen before like that so that might be
um an issue but of course it is
important we should know now by
experience that when you have a mass
crime or something like that you need to
look at sexual violence and you need to
ask for investigation on that and this
was not done and I think also you know
Civil Society even at the time Israeli
in Civil Society was talking about that
and it's true what was said before there
were video we could you know everybody
saw this woman naked you know and and
the people parading with them and and
spitting on her with her sorry and
spitting on her I mean all of this we
have seen it we reacted very quickly so
why the other did not I mean that that's
a question right so now that this
evidence is out there and these images
out there
um what's the process how do
perpetrators get brought to
Justice well that's you know that's the
one million question because indeed if
we talk about international criminal law
you know we need perpetrators and so we
need to identify these people we need to
have them alive if we want to process
them to justice and we need to relate
these people to the crime that have been
committed um now to just uh jump a bit
on what you just just said yes there is
evidence there are lots of element but
all of this has to be documented and
analyzed and everything when you see a
video as it's not an Evidence by itself
you know you need to authenticate this
video you need to understand the source
you need to understand who is in it and
Etc but um yes the question of justice
is very complicated but you know there's
not only a question of justice for
people and especially women who go
through sexual violence as I see you
know in many conflict need to feel
supported it's very important so there
is you know there are steps uh between
something happened uh and Justice all
along and maybe never happen but then
there is there are steps between there
is documentation there is you know
talking about it we need to say it
happened because it did happen and
that's very important for them and for
all of the world to understand that
thank you for outlining that so clearly
for us Seline B from the NGO we are not
weapons of war
thank
you